03 Data analysis

Specialized in analyzing data. Results, trends and recommendations are clearly presented in reports or tools.

GOAL: Often, companies have data that contain a lot of hidden information. Asking the right questions and analyzing the data will give you relevant insights. The goal is to answer the right questions that will help the company to make the right decisions.
RESULT: Results are presented in a report with recommendations and follow-up steps. Based on this report, clear and well-founded decisions can be made, costs can be saved and processes optimized.
PROJECT DURATION: Project duration varies between 2 weeks and 3 months. In order to carry out the project as quickly as possible, it is important that the relevant data is available, complete and clean.

CASE from https://www.claudiatenhoope.com/data-analysis/ – HOW CAN WE OPTIMIZE THE SALES FUNNEL?
This case is how we can understand better on the behaviour of the audience of this webshop.

For example: Extensive analysis for a webshop to optimize the sales funnel. The webshop wanted to know when people drop out during the ordering process and whether a distinction could be made between different types of customers. When the sales funnel is optimized according to the (summary) analysis below, turnover can potentially increase by 5.8%.
The figures below have been adjusted because of anonymity of the webshop.

HOW MANY VISITORS DOES THE WEBSHOP HAVE AND HOW MANY ORDERS?
In 2017, the number of visitors increased because of campaigns. The percentage of unique visitors remained relatively stable over the past three years. The number of orders increased along with the number of visitors, but the number of items per order didn’t reach the level they hoped for.
refer the graph here: https://github.com/lokmanTech/01_Introduction_to_Data_Science/blob/b798b6af979c4d673cdc9809afdf34c762f17a84/03.1%20Number%20%26%20Percentages.png

WHAT DOES THE SALES FUNNEL LOOK LIKE AND WHERE DO VISITORS DROP OUT?
Together with the webshop we identified the processes a visitor goes through until the purchase is done. Using Google Analytics and the own systems of the webshop we were able to check which visitors visit the website and which process they go through.
refer the image here: 
